Principle of Equitable Use: 
All users have access to the same tools and the ability to play 
the game. The design is simple and the black and white board provides
 high contrast for users with visual impairments, however, there is 
no audio output feature for users with more severe visual impairments 
which we could add in the future. The click and drag option is 
programmed to be as error forgiving as possible for users who have 
trouble with mouse manipulation and should be automatically compatible
with any interfaces that improve the ease of mouse manipulation.
Principle of Flexibility in Use: 
The game can currently only be played in its basic state, however, 
users can choose the color they wish to play. The user’s accuracy 
is facilitated both by accepting a move in which a piece is dropped
anywhere in a valid destination square and by automatically 
disallowing the input of illegal moves. Because chess is a turn-based
game, the user can input moves at whatever pace is optimal for them. 
Principle of Simple and Intuitive Use:
The login and register UI’s are very straightforward, prompting the 
user only for username and password in an obvious location at the 
screen’s center. The login UI is written in simple English but does 
not yet accommodate other languages, which is a potential improvement 
to be made, however, once the user is logged in, it will be easy for 
them to understand the click and drag mechanics of the board 
regardless of language. Similarly, the board obviously prompts the 
user upon the game’s end with a popup at the screen’s center. 
Principle of Tolerance for Error: 
None of our elements are hazardous and errors only occur when users 
input invalid login information or when they make an illegal move 
in which case they are simply prompted to try again. 
Principle of Low Physical Effort: 
The extent of the physical effort required to play the game is the 
click and drag of a mouse, comparable to the lowest effort required 
of any game on the PC.
Principle of Size and Space for Approach and Use
Since our program does not involve any specific external hardware it 
should be readily compatible with whatever setup the user already has 
that is presumably comfortable for their use.  
Principle of Perceptible Information
The program does not yet have verbal or tactile output options which 
could make it more accessible in the future, however, all visual 
information is displayed in high contrast, usually black and white. 
It is displayed in legible font with easily distinguishable piece 
models.   
Target Audience: This program would be most obviously marketed 
towards people interested in playing chess online. Due to the 
ability to select an opponent from the active user list, it could 
also be marketed towards people who specifically want to play 
against friends and people interested in a more casual experience, 
so it could be marketed specifically towards beginners. 

Less Likely Users: Most disabilities that would prevent someone from 
playing chess normally over a physical board would also, 
unfortunately, prevent them from using our program as it follows 
the same basic rules and principles. As mentioned above, users with 
sever visual impairments would have trouble seeing the board and we 
do not yet have audio output describing moves but that would be 
possible to add in the future.  